[extension-docs] Add manifest key pages: author, automation, CSP, input_component (#3837)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/manifest/input_component/index.md

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "Manifest - input_component"
date: 2022-10-28
updated: 
description: Reference documentation for the input_component property of manifest.json.
---

> An optional Manifest key enabling the use of the  [input.ime API](/docs/extensions/reference/input_ime/) (Input Method Editor) for use with ChromeOS. This allows your extension to handle keystrokes, set the composition, and open assistive windows.   
> Including the key in the extension manifest is done under Permissions.

Reviewer: Either add an extra newline to make these two distinct paragraphs or remove the newline to make them a single paragraph.

```suggestion
An optional Manifest key enabling the use of the  [input.ime API](/docs/extensions/reference/input_ime/) (Input Method Editor) for use with ChromeOS. This allows your extension to handle keystrokes, set the composition, and open assistive windows.   

Including the key in the extension manifest is done under Permissions.
```

Reviewer 2: This should be one paragraph.

> ---

Reviewer: Poking through source, it looks like `input_component` is an array of objects. This section should be expanded to document the following properties.

- `name`: string. Required. Example: `"ToUpperIME"`
- `id`: string. Optional. Example: `"ToUpperIME"`
- `language`: string or array of strings. Optional. Examples: `"en"`, `["en", "pt"]`
- `layouts`: array of strings. Optional. Example: `["us::eng"]`. CrOS only supports one layout per input method. If multiple layouts are specified, selection order is undefined. Extensions are therefore strongly encouraged to  only specify one layout per input method. ([comment](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:chrome/browser/extensions/api/input_ime/input_ime_api_chromeos.cc;l=911-918;drc=24e5d915169bb4a4a0cff916ba1424fd6b31abcb))
  - A `xkb:` prefix indicates that this is a keyboard layout extension, but this only applies to components(?) ([source](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:ui/base/ime/ash/extension_ime_util.cc;l=162;drc=24e5d915169bb4a4a0cff916ba1424fd6b31abcb))
- `input_view`: string. Optional. If provided, this string must resolve to an extension resource.
- `options_page`: string. Optional. If provided, this string must resolve to an extension resource. If not provided, will fall back to the extension's options page.

**Resources consulted**

* [test manifest](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:chrome/test/data/extensions/input_ime/manifest.json;drc=06a8786f693747faedb42659008c2196733e26e1)
* [input_components_handler.cc](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:chrome/common/extensions/api/input_ime/input_components_handler.cc;drc=354945de1fb564ef04c07cf8bfedf434d2d81747)
* [input_ime_api_chromeos.cc](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:chrome/browser/extensions/api/input_ime/input_ime_api_chromeos.cc;l=931;drc=24e5d915169bb4a4a0cff916ba1424fd6b31abcb)

**Other notes**

- Third party IMEs cannot be used to log in to Chrome OS devices ([source](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:chrome/browser/extensions/api/input_ime/input_ime_api_chromeos.cc;l=931;drc=24e5d915169bb4a4a0cff916ba1424fd6b31abcb)).

layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "Manifest - input_component"
date: 2022-10-28
updated: 
description: Reference documentation for the input_component property of manifest.json.
---

> An optional Manifest key enabling the use of the  [input.ime API](/docs/extensions/reference/input_ime/) (Input Method Editor) for use with ChromeOS. This allows your extension to handle keystrokes, set the composition, and open assistive windows. Including the key in the extension manifest is done under Permissions.

Reviewer: > Including the key in the extension manifest is done under Permissions.

This seems incorrect. As I read it, this is saying that `"input_component"` is a top property inside an extension's manifest.json file, but that key is also a string that should be declared in the `"permissions"` array in the manifest. 

According to the [`input.ime` API docs](https://deploy-preview-3837--developer-chrome-com.netlify.app/docs/extensions/reference/input_ime/), developers must declare the `"input"` permission in the permission list. Perhaps this this should be reframed like this?

```suggestion
An optional Manifest key enabling the use of the  [`input.ime` API](/docs/extensions/reference/input_ime/) (Input Method Editor) for use with ChromeOS. This allows your extension to handle keystrokes, set the composition, and open assistive windows. Developers must also declare the `"input"` permission in the extension's `"permissions"` array. 
```
